# Hackaton Mobility 2018

* [Project Structure](#project-structure)
* [Project Requirements](#project-requirements)
* [How-To: Execute the Code](#how-to-execute-the-code)
    - [Executing the code from the Terminal](#executing-the-code-from-the-terminal)
    - [Executing the code from PyCharm](#executing-the-code-from-pycharm)
* [How-To: Include HackMob Modules](#how-to-include-hackmob-modules)
* [How-To: Comment Python Code](#how-to-comment-python-code)
* [How-To: Create Absolute Paths](#how-to-create-absolute-paths)

## Project Structure

It's mandatory that you respect the structure of the project. The folders are:

- **docs/**: autogenerated documentation of the `hackmob` package.
- **hackmob/**: main package of the project. All the modules (in Python, every .py file is a module) must be inside this folder. **ONLY FUNCTIONAL CODE MUST BE UPLOADED HERE**
- **hackmob_tests/**: tests package of the project. Code in this folder will not be uploaded to GitHub. Use this package to make every test you want.
- **img/**: folder to store the images of the people in the face recognition database.
- **models/**: deep learning models used in the project.
- **res/**: folder to place resource files, like SQLite Databases. 

## Project Requirements

We will use **Python 3.6** to develop this project. The list of dependencies so far is:

`numpy`, `opencv-python`

To install dependencies using `pip` use the following syntax:

    pip3 install dependency_name

## How-To: Execute the Code

We will use the `__main__.py` file to execute the `hackmob` package.

#### Executing the code from the Terminal

Move to the root folder and execute:

    python3 hackmob

#### Executing the code from PyCharm

We need to modify the default execution behavior. To do that:

1. Go to `Run -> Edit Configurations`
2. Click the + icon and select _"Python"_.
3. Change _"Script path"_ by _"Module name"_ and set it to _"hackmob"_.
4. Uncheck the _"Show command line afterwards"_ option (if checked).

If you want to execute a test module execute it as you always do. **If it doesn't work tell me**

## How-To: Include HackMob Modules

To include modules of the `hackmob` package we must use the following notation:

    from hackmob.my_module include MyClass
    
We can access modules from the `hackmob_tests` package as well:

    from hackmob_tests.my_test_module include MyClass
    
Remember that the project folder must be in the **$PYTHONPATH** environment variable.

## How-To: Comment Python Code

In order to create the documentation automatically, certain comment rules must be followed. The [Sphinx Domain](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/1.4.8/domains.html#basic-markup) is the standard way to comment Python Code. An example of a commented function is:

    def compute_sum(a,b):
        """
        Computes the sum of the input values
        
        :param a: first number
        :param b: second number
        :return: sum of the numbers
        """
        return a + b
        
## How-To: Create Absolute Paths

It's a good practice to use absolute paths to avoid problems. Python provides the `os.path` package to work with paths. We will use two main functions:

- `os.path.dirname(file_path)`: returns the absolute path of the directy containing the file.
- `os.path.join(path, *paths)`: joins various paths.

For example, if we want to load an image from the **img/** path from the **hackmob/__main__.py**, we can obtain the absolute with the command:

    image_path = os.path.join(os.path.dirname(os.path.dirname(__file__)), 'img', 'image_name.png')
    
Where `__file__` would return the absolute path of the executed file. Notice that we have to use two `os.path.dirname`.
